en: add a document about scenarios (#134)
pingcap/docs-dm: en/scenarios.md

- Use the default setting of concurrency control parameters or configure `mydumper-thread`, `loader-thread`, and `syncer-thread` as needed.
- No need to configure `route-rules`, `filter-rules` and `block-allow-list`.

### Migrate some application data from MySQL/MariaDB

If there are multiple application data in MySQL/MariaDB, but only part of the data needs to be migrated to TiDB, you can configure the migration task by referring to [Use TiDB as a secondary database of MySQL/MariaDB](#use-tidb-as-mysqlmariadbs-secondary-database). Then configure `block-allow-list` as needed.

To migrate upstream data to a schema or table with a different name in the downstream database, you can configure `route-rules`.

For some archiving scenarios, some data may be periodically cleaned up by executing the `TRUNCATE TABLE`/`DROP TABLE` command in the upstream or through other means. To make sure all data are retained in the downstream TiDB, you can disable these data clearing operations by configuring `filter-rules`.

For more information, refer to [Data Migration Simple Usage Scenario](usage-scenario-simple-replication.md).

## Shard Merge scenario

> If there are multiple sharded tables in multiple sharded schemas in the upstream MySQL/MariaDB, to merge them into one table or schema when migrating to TiDB, you can rename the table name or the schema name in the upstream database by configuring `route-rules`, and then these tables can be merged into the same downstream schema or table. For details, refer to [Data Migration Shard Merge Scenario](usage-scenario-shard-merge.md) and [Best Practices of Data Migration in the Shard Merge Scenario](shard-merge-best-practices.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are multiple sharded tables in multiple sharded schemas in the upstream MySQL/MariaDB, to merge them into one table or schema when migrating to TiDB, you can rename the table or the schema in the upstream database by configuring `route-rules`, and then these tables can be merged into the same downstream schema or table. For details, refer to [Data Migration Shard Merge Scenario](usage-scenario-shard-merge.md) and [Best Practices of Data Migration in the Shard Merge Scenario](shard-merge-best-practices.md).
```

Specifically, DM supports the migration of DDL. For details, refer to [Merge and Replicate Data from Sharded Tables](feature-shard-merge.md).

> If you only need to migrate some application data or filter out some operations, refer to [Migrate some applicationb data from MySQL/MariaDB](#migrate-some-application-data-from-mysqlmariadb) in part `Non-merging sharding table scenario`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you only need to migrate some application data or filter out some operations, refer to [Migrate some applicationb data from MySQL/MariaDB](#migrate-some-application-data-from-mysqlmariadb).
```

---
title: Usage Scenarios
summary: Understand the main usage scenarios of TiDB Data Migration.

> category: reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

# Usage scenarios

This document introduces the main usage scenarios supported by TiDB Data Migration (DM) and related usage suggestions.

## Non-shard-merge scenario

> ### TiDB as MySQL/MariaDB's secondary library

Author: most of the documents use `secondary library`, should we unified the word?

> If you want to use TiDB as the upstream MySQL/MariaDB's secondary library, that is, import the full data of the upstream instance to TiDB, and replicate the incremental data to TiDB in real-time once data changes are made, you can configure the data migration task according to the following rules:

Reviewer 2: How about using always using `secondary database`?

- Specify `task-mode` as `all`.
- Configure `target-database` based on the connection information of the downstream TiDB.
- Configure `source-id` in `mysql-instances` based on the ID information of the upstream MySQL/MariaDB instances.
- Use the default setting of concurrency control parameters or configure `mydumper-thread`, `loader-thread`, and `syncer-thread` as needed.

> - No need to configure `route-rules`, `filter-rules` and `black-white-list`.

Reviewer 2: How about updating `black-white-list` in this PR?

### Migrate some application data from MySQL/MariaDB

If there are multiple application data in MySQL/MariaDB, but only part of the data needs to be migrated to TiDB, you can configure the migration task by referring to [Use TiDB as a secondary library of MySQL/MariaDB](#use-tidb-as-mysqlmariadbs-secondary-database). Then configure `black-white-list` as needed.

To migrate upstream data to a schema or table with a different name in the downstream database, you can configure `route-rules`.

> For some archiving scenarios, some data may be periodically cleaned up by executing the `TRUNCATE TABLE`/`DROP TABLE` command  in the upstream or through other means. To make sure all data are retained in the downstream TiDB, you can disable these data clearing operations by configuring `filter-rules`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For some archiving scenarios, some data may be periodically cleaned up by executing the `TRUNCATE TABLE`/`DROP TABLE` command in the upstream or through other means. To make sure all data are retained in the downstream TiDB, you can disable these data clearing operations by configuring `filter-rules`.
```

> For such scenarios, please refer to [Data Migration Simple Use Scenario](usage-scenario-simple-replication.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to [Data Migration Simple Usage Scenario](usage-scenario-simple-replication.md).
```

> ## Shard-merge scenario

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Shard Merge scenario
```

> If there are multiple sharding tables in the upstream MySQL/MariaDB, it is usually expected to merge them into only one table when migrating to TiDB. The schema name or the table name in the upstream data can be renamed by configuring `route-rules`, and then these tables will be merged into the same downstream schema or table. For details, please refer to [Data Migration Shard Merge Scenario](usage-scenario-shard-merge.md) and [Best Practices of Data Migration in the Shard Merge Scenario](shard-merge-best-practices.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are multiple sharded tables in multiple sharded schemas in the upstream MySQL/MariaDB, to merge them into one table or schema when migrating to TiDB, you can rename the table name or the schema name in the upstream database by configuring `route-rules`, and then these tables can be merged into the same downstream schema or table. For details, refer to [Data Migration Shard Merge Scenario](usage-scenario-shard-merge.md) and [Best Practices of Data Migration in the Shard Merge Scenario](shard-merge-best-practices.md).
```

> DM supports the migration of DDL specifically. For details, please refer to [Merge and Replicate Data from Sharded Tables](feature-shard-merge.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifically, DM supports the migration of DDL. For details, refer to [Merge and Replicate Data from Sharded Tables](feature-shard-merge.md).
```

> If you only need to migrate part of the business data or filter some specific operations, you can directly refer to [Migrating some business data in MySQL/MariaDB](#migrating-some-business-data-in-mysql/mariadb) in part `Non-merging sharding table scenario`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you only need to migrate some application data or filter out some operations, refer to [Migrating some business data in MySQL/MariaDB](#migrating-some-business-data-in-mysql/mariadb) in part `Non-merging sharding table scenario`.
```

## Online DDL scenario

> In MySQL ecosystem, tools such as pt-osc or gh-ost are often used to perform online DDL operations. DM also supports such scenarios. You can enable pt-osc and gh-ost by configuring the `online-ddl-scheme` parameter. For details, refer to [DM Online DDL Scheme](online-ddl-scheme.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In MySQL ecosystem, tools such as pt-osc or gh-ost are often used to perform online DDL operations. DM also supports such scenarios. You can enable support for pt-osc or gh-ost by configuring the `online-ddl-scheme` parameter. For details, refer to [DM Online DDL Scheme](online-ddl-scheme.md).
```

> In MySQL's ecosystem, tools such as pt-osc or gh-ost are often used to perform online DDL operations. DM provides special support for such scenarios, which can be enabled by configuring the `online-ddl-scheme` parameter. For details, please refer to [DM online-ddl-scheme](online-ddl-scheme.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In MySQL ecosystem, tools such as pt-osc or gh-ost are often used to perform online DDL operations. DM also supports such scenarios. You can enable pt-osc and gh-ost by configuring the `online-ddl-scheme` parameter. For details, refer to [DM Online DDL Scheme](online-ddl-scheme.md).
```

> ## Change upstream MySQL instance of DM connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Switch the DM-worker connection to another instance
```

> When using MySQL/MariaDB, a primary-secondary cluster is often built to improve read performance and ensure data security. If the upstream MySQL/MariaDB instance connected by DM-worker is unavailable for some reason when using DM to migration data, you need to connect DM-worker to another instance in the upstream primary-secondary cluster. For such scenarios, DM provides nice support, but there are still some limitations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use MySQL/MariaDB, a primary-secondary cluster can be built to improve the read performance and to ensure data safety. If the upstream MySQL/MariaDB instance connected by DM-worker is unavailable for some reason when you use DM to migrate data, you need to connect DM-worker to another instance in the upstream primary-secondary cluster. For such scenarios, DM provides good support, but there are some limitations.
```

> When you use MySQL/MariaDB, a primary-secondary cluster can be built to improve the read performance and to ensure data safety. If the upstream MySQL/MariaDB instance connected by DM-worker is unavailable for some reason when you use DM to migrate data, you need to switch the DM-worker connection to another MySQL/MariaDB instance in the upstream primary-secondary cluster. For such scenarios, DM provides good support, but there are some limitations.

Reviewer 2: `usage-scenario-master-slave-switch.md` has not been translated yet?

Author: yes
